Add build-time OpenAPI generation doc (#33359)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/fundamentals/openapi/buildtime-openapi.md

---
title: Generate OpenAPI documents at build time
author: captainsafia
description: Learn how to generate OpenAPI documents in your application's build step
ms.author: safia
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-6.0'
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 8/13/2024
uid: fundamentals/openapi/buildtime-openapi
---

> # Generate OpenAPI documents at build-time

Author: @Rick-Anderson @tdykstra This definitely needs some massaging for prose and formatting but the material covered is true to what I think we should cover. Feel free to modify this branch as you see fit.

Reviewer: > @Rick-Anderson @tdykstra This definitely needs some massaging for prose and formatting but the material covered is true to what I think we should cover. Feel free to modify this branch as you see fit.

Can I merge  #33361 into this branch? You've reviewed  #33361 and @mikekistler  has approved my changes. My PR fixes the *toc.yml* merge conflict.  I think I can easily fix the other merge conflicts.

In a typical web applications, OpenAPI documents are generated at run-time and served via an HTTP request to the application server.

> In some scenarios, it is helpful to generate the OpenAPI document during the application's build step. These scenarios including:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In some scenarios, it's helpful to generate the OpenAPI document during the application's build step. These scenarios include:
```

> - Generating OpenAPI documentation that is committed into source control
> - Generating OpenAPI documentation that is used for spec-based integration testing
> - Generating OpenAPI documentation that is served statically from the web server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Generating OpenAPI documentation that is committed into source control.
- Generating OpenAPI documentation that is used for spec-based integration testing.
- Generating OpenAPI documentation that is served statically from the web server.
```

To add support for generating OpenAPI documents at build time, install the `Microsoft.Extensions.ApiDescription.Server` package:

### [Visual Studio](#tab/visual-studio)

Run the following command from the **Package Manager Console**:

 ```powershell
 Install-Package Microsoft.Extensions.ApiDescription.Server -IncludePrerelease
```

### [.NET CLI](#tab/net-cli)

Run the following command in the directory that contains the project file:

```dotnetcli
dotnet add package Microsoft.Extensions.ApiDescription.Server --prerelease
```
---

Upon installation, this package will automatically generate the Open API document(s) associated with the application during build and populate them into the application's output directory.

```cli
$ dotnet build

> $ cat bin/Debub/net9.0/{ProjectName}.json

Reviewer 2: Should Debub be Debug?

Author: Yep!

```suggestion
$ cat bin/Debug/net9.0/{ProjectName}.json
```

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <OpenApiGenerateDocumentsOptions>--document-name v2</OpenApiGenerateDocumentsOptions>
</PropertyGroup>
```

## Customizing run-time behavior during build-time document generation

Under the hood, build-time OpenAPI document generation functions by launching the application's entrypoint with an inert server implementation. This is a requirement to produce accurate OpenAPI documents since all information in the OpenAPI document cannot be statically analyzed. Because the application's entrypoint is invoked, any logic in the applications' startup will be invoked. This includes code that injects services into the DI container or reads from configuration. In some scenarios, it's necessary to restrict the codepaths that will run when the application's entry point is being invoked from build-time document generation. These scenarios include:

> - Not reading from certain configuration strings
> - Not registering database-related services

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Not reading from certain configuration strings.
- Not registering database-related services.
```

In order to restrict these codepaths from being invoked by the build-time generation pipeline, they can be conditioned behind a check of the entry assembly like so:

```csharp
using System.Reflection;

var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder();

if (Assembly.GetEntryAssembly()?.GetName().Name != "GetDocument.Insider")
{

>   builders.Services.AddDefaults();

Reviewer 2: Is builder supposed to be plural here?

Author: Nope, should be singular.

```suggestion
  builder.Services.AddDefaults();
```
